# basic-calculator-cpp

To run the calculator app, clone the repo. Below procedure is only for Windows operating system.

### How to run on Windows:
If you're on Windows, make sure you have compiler installed. Refer to below link for compiler installation on Windows. 

[https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-mingw#_prerequisites](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-mingw#_prerequisites)

Then in Visual Studio Code, make a `tasks.json` file with below content, go to `main.cpp` file and click `Run C/C++ File`. Your executable file will be generated. Then you can simply run your app by `./main.exe`.
```
{
    "tasks": [
        {
            "type": "cppbuild",
            "label": "C/C++: gcc.exe build active file",
            "command": "C:\\msys64\\ucrt64\\bin\\g++.exe",
            "args": [
                "-fdiagnostics-color=always",
                "-g",
                "${workspaceFolder}/*.cpp",
                "-o",
                "${workspaceFolder}\\main.exe"
            ],
            "options": {
                "cwd": "${fileDirname}"
            },
            "problemMatcher": [
                "$gcc"
            ],
            "group": {
                "kind": "build",
                "isDefault": true
            },
            "detail": "Task generated by Debugger."
        }
    ],
    "version": "2.0.0"
}
```

## Description of the app
This C++ calculator is a simple program designed to perform basic arithmetic operations. It is implemented using a class named `Calc`, which provides the following functionalities:

- Constructor (`Calc()`): Initializes the calculator object.
- Destructor (`~Calc()`): Cleans up resources when the calculator object is destroyed.
- `welcome()`: Displays a welcome message to the user and prompts the user to choose an operation from the below list. Then based on the user selection, the app either either for user input numbers or is terminated.
  - `add`: Adds two numbers and returns the result.
  - `subtract`: Subtracts the second number from the first and returns the result.
  - `multiply`: Multiplies two numbers and returns the result.
  - `divide`: Divides the first number by the second and returns the result. (Note: Division by zero is currently implemented in the app by showing a warning message and returning a zero.)
  - `user_inputs`: Prompts the user to input two numbers, which are passed by reference.

This calculator provides a simple interface for performing arithmetic operations and can be extended with additional functionality as needed. An extension to the app could be defining two different versions of calculator: a basic calculator and an advanced calculator with more advanced arithmetic operations, so that the user can choose his desired calculator.